All right.
So here I've got a table with some different materials in their dielectric Constance again.
Let's assume we have just parallel plates.
I mean draw em over here.
OK.
And again the value in air is going to be Epsilon 0.
The area divided by the distance between them.
Now when there is a capacitor or sorry when there is a dielectric inside we know that the capacitance
let's call it C with a little subscript K is going to be k multiplied by c 0.
And it becomes K Epsilon 0 the area divided by the distance.
Let's look at these different materials over here.
So air the value is like 1 point 0 0 0 5 9.
So basically 1 actually if you look down here vacuum vacuums also on the list there is vacuum the value
is 1 for vacuum.
So you can see if I put nothing if I take the air out or if I keep the air in the dielectric constant
is basically the same value.
Have a look at some other kind of common materials a rubber rubber has a dielectric constant of six
point seven.
Right.
So if I filled if I fill that space with rubber colored in red here.
So if this here was rubber
again let me kind of draw it out.
Rubber the way I would calculate the capacitance of this object here would be.
Well again I would use the dielectric constant for rubber so I would use six point seven and then multiplied
by the capacitance when there is nothing between the plates Epsilon 0 a divided by D so you could see
I've increased the capacitance now here's some other materials paper three point seven is the value
let's highlight that one this one you can kind of do labs sometimes in school you end up doing a lab
like this with paper between because it's very easy to insert paper between the plates what else.
Look at some of the larger values right I don't know what this strontium Titan 8 that's a really big
value right.
Two hundred and thirty three.
That's incredible.
That's a very very large increase in the capacitance all right.
So the capacitance really always goes up when I increase a dielectric between the plates and what does
that mean actually in terms of our equations that we saw.
Well number one thing that it means is if I connect this to a battery what's going to happen if the
voltage of the battery is V and I've increased the capacitance now it means I'm going to store more
charge
so that's what it really allows us to do.
So for rubber I'd really be allowed to store almost seven times more charge on the plates than if I
didn't have a dielectric between them.